[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hello and welcome.
I'm Lisa Garr.
Experts are saying that
many people are experiencing
higher stress levels than ever.
And with so many old
systems breaking down
and new systems
on the forefront,
one of those systems that's
in need of a new approach
is our medical system.
Many people are taking
charge of their health
and taking their health
into their own hands.
And there is an enormous
amount of technologies
here to support that
much needed trend.
Joining me is
neurosurgeon and founder
of the American Holistic
Medical Association, Doctor Norm
Shealy.
He is also the creator
of the original TENS unit
that he created 45 years
ago for pain management.
And his work has
also greatly expanded
the field of energy medicine.
Welcome to the show, Norm.
>>DOCTOR NORM SHEALY: Well
it's great to be with you.
>>LISA: It's great to have
you with us, and a true honor.
I am a huge fan of your work.
And just to have the opportunity
to sit with you today
is enormous, especially
with all that you know.
And my goal here
is to really have
you share what people don't know
about how many technologies are
accessible when it
has to do with pain.
People don't need to stay in
pain and depression for as long
as they have been.
>>SHEALY: No, I've actually
worked with 40,000 people.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHEALY: And over
30,000 of them
had depression as
well as chronic pain.
I can get 85% of them out of
depression within two weeks
without drugs, safely.
>>LISA: Permanently?
>>SHEALY: Yes.
>>LISA: Safely?
>>SHEALY: Safely.
>>LISA: Without drugs.
>>SHEALY: Without drugs.
>>LISA: This is why you're here.
>>SHEALY: Safely.
>>LISA: Because people
need to know this.
They need to know that you
don't need to necessarily run
to the pain pills or stay
in that state of depression.
Regardless of circumstances,
things happen.
But it's about resilience.
And there's all sorts
of tools and technology
out there that can get you
into that place of resilience
in a healthy way.
>>SHEALY: Yes.
>>LISA: So let's talk
about energy medicine.
First of all we're throwing
that term around a little bit.
What is it?
>>SHEALY: Well it's
actually everything.
You and I are energy.
And drugs and surgery, which
are conventional medicine,
are parts of energy.
But in general, the
term energy medicine
is using those tools that
are not drugs or surgery.
So it's a wide variety of
physical, mental, emotional,
chemical approaches to health.
>>LISA: Now you, of
course, are a neurosurgeon.
You came from the medical field.
How do you compare the two?
Is it an integrative approach?
Is it an oppositional approach?
What is your opinion?
>>SHEALY: There's
a place for both.
About 15% of the time
people need drugs or surgery
to save their life.
But 85% of the time, especially
when the problem becomes
chronic, drugs are
likely to make it worse,
and surgery is not the answer.
And it's that 85% of the
time that, unfortunately,
conventional
medicine still treats
as if it's an acute illness.
And all these things that you
see on television about this,
that, and the other drug,
those called side effects,
they're complications.
You know, if you die,
it's a complication.
And 106,000 people
die every year
just from drugs,
prescribed drugs.
>>LISA: I mean, it makes sense.
I've had many
friends who have been
on various different protocols.
And to get all the doctors to
be on a team and talk together
takes a lot these
days, where it comes
to insurance and so forth.
From your perspective,
though, you're a neurosurgeon.
You came from
operating and going
through intricate surgeries.
Did you make a choice,
a conscious choice,
to no longer do that?
>>SHEALY: Well,
back in the '60s it
was obvious to me that cutting
the spinal cord, or the brain,
or a peripheral nerve for
chronic, non-cancer pain
was crazy.
And so I started in the early
'60s looking for alternatives.
How do we control pain?
And my first invention was
something called dorsal column
stimulation, where
we actually planted
a pacemaker over
the spinal cord.
And then I developed
transcutaneous
electrical nerve
stimulation, which
has many more applications.
But I got into using
acupuncture in the mid '60s.
>>LISA: Tell me a little
bit about the TENS unit.
People might or might
not know about it.
But it's a very famous--
it's used worldwide for pain
control.
And it stands for--
>>SHEALY: Transcutaneous
electrical nerve stimulation.
And there are many
different devices now.
We can put out any frequency.
And of course, the
most recent development
is what I call human
DNA frequency, 54 to 78
billion cycles per second,
at a billionth of a watt.
And that is useful for
stimulating acupuncture points.
>>LISA: So you
take the TENS unit,
which was just simple impulses
to the-- nerve impulses, right?
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Impulses to
the nerves, right?
>>SHEALY: Yep.
>>LISA: And at a
very low frequency.
>>SHEALY: Right.
>>LISA: Now you take the
human DNA frequency--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Explain those three
words, human DNA frequency.
>>SHEALY: Our DNA,
which is in every cell,
actually is vibrating,
if you will, at 54 to 78
billion cycles per second.
But we're using a
billionth of a watt
to recharge the DNA circuit.
>>LISA: You're kidding.
You can re--
>>SHEALY: Now, you
don't lose frequency,
as long as you're alive.
But you lose amplitude,
if you will, strength.
And by putting these frequencies
back into specific acupuncture
points, we literally
recharge the DNA battery.
>>LISA: So stress
takes it out of us.
>>SHEALY: Stress
>>LISA: And you can literally
recharge the DNA battery.
>>SHEALY: It works.
The problem I've
found is that people
don't want to spend
the time that it takes.
So I've started talking, six
years ago, about using it
for specific things, to
rejuvenate the body as a whole,
to extend healthy longevity.
And I've found that 90
plus percent of people
wouldn't spend 20 minutes
a day to save their life.
>>LISA: That sounds
so ridiculous.
It sounds so ridiculous.
But many, many people,
including myself,
are probably guilty
of that very thing.
Why do you think that is?
Why do you think we
wouldn't spend-- I mean,
first of all, the awareness
of these technologies
is first and foremost.
But then people
wouldn't use them?
>>SHEALY: Just because of time.
Just because of time.
And so, yes, I can--
with 20 minutes I
can stimulate one circuit in the
body and do phenomenal things.
But that's why I've actually
moved, in the last year,
towards using things that
take 30 seconds instead
of 20 minutes.
>>LISA: Well, actually,
Doctor Shealy produced a DVD.
And you did this DVD yourself.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: And it's the Medical
Renaissance Series, The Secret
Code.
>>SHEALY: Right, and I wanted to
show what the possibilities are
in a wide variety of ways of
treating pain and depression.
>>LISA: So there are several
technologies out there.
And this-- we actually
have a clip from the DVD,
and it's going to show
just a few of these.
Because I really want
people to understand.
I mean, you've gone from
everything from the TENS unit
to now changing
human DNA frequency.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: And I think it's
really important that people
are aware of some of the things.
So we're going to go to
a clip, and show people
a clip of-- this is from the
Medical Renaissance DVD called
The Secret Code, produced
by Doctor Norm Shealy.
>>SHEALY: Now I'd like to show
some of the other things that
led us upon this path
for what is now called
complementary alternative
medicine, integrative medicine.
I still think of it
as holistic medicine,
medicine of the whole person.
I was able, with the help
of engineers and physicists,
to produce a modern solid
state electrode, essentially,
which is called a Shealy TENS.
This particular device
is infinitely more
effective at treating pain than
acupuncture in the long run.
I love acupuncture,
I've done it since 1967.
But this is more effective.
And we apply it through
electrodes directly onto areas
above, or below,
or around the pain,
and to specific
acupuncture points
to help create specific
neuro-chemical changes that
allow pain control, and
sometimes mood control.
Then in 1975, an engineer
named Saul Liss brought me
this device, which is called
the Liss Cranial Electrical
Stimulator.
What I found is that when
we apply this transcranially
it markedly rejuvenates
the body's ability
to make serotonin, and
raises beta endorphins,
the natural narcotics
that make you feel good.
When I learned that you had had
a life of not sleeping well,
what did I do?
>>JOSH: You offered me a few
supplements and a cranial--
>>SHEALY: And a Liss Stimulator.
>>JOSH: Yep.
>>SHEALY: And the first
night, after you'd
used it in the
morning, what happened?
>>JOSH: Went to bed
and slept great.
>>SHEALY: And here we are
now, several months later,
and how's your sleep now?
>>JOSH: Last night I went to bed
and didn't even think about it,
and went to sleep.
And next thing I know I
woke up and come to work.
>>SHEALY: And how many hours?
>>JOSH: Eight plus.
>>SHEALY: That's neat!
What's your feeling
like during the day
now, compared to before?
>>JOSH: I'm not worn down.
I feel like Energizer Bunny now.
>>SHEALY: That's terrific.
In the later '70s,
mid '70s roughly,
I discovered that flashing
light also helps relaxation.
All patients with
depression are agitated
to a greater or lesser extent.
So inability to relax
is a part of it.
And so we created this
particular device,
which is called the
Shealy RelaxMate.
When we combine this
with a Liss Stimulator,
we can get 85% of
people out of depression
safely, without drugs,
within two weeks.
So these three things--
the Shealy TENS,
the Liss Cranial Electrical
Stimulator, and the RelaxMate--
are the single most important
parts of our entire treatment
program.
But there are many other
things that we use.
And one of the things that
we have used intermittently,
but increasingly, is
a modern derivation
of this particular device,
called the Violet Ray.
I had an intuitive
impression, some 15 years ago,
that if we applied this
to a copper pyramid
it would enhance the effect.
And that's what we now
call the RejuvaMatrix.
And that's the
system that we use
for getting the
whole body bathed
in this atmosphere of
human DNA frequency
so that they can have a
possibility of reversing
DNA damage.
And in our recent pilot
study, the telomeres actually
grew 1% within three months.
Ordinarily they
shrink 1% a year.
That means within five
years, your telomeres
could be back at age 25.
>>LISA: And so those are
just some of the technologies
that you-- I mean
those were just four.
>>SHEALY: Right.
Well we probably have 50.
>>LISA: 50?
50 technologies for getting
rid of pain and depression.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: That's enormous.
>>SHEALY: Well it's also
important because, you know,
different strokes
for different folks.
And it's important to
try different things.
You know, if a patient
believes in it, it works.
>>LISA: But why
aren't these units
and these different
techniques and technologies
in places like physical
therapy offices?
>>SHEALY: Because
the pharmaco mafia
now owns the world,
unfortunately.
>>LISA: Tell it like it is.
>>SHEALY: Well I've not ever
been known to be a sheep.
>>LISA: Nope.
>>SHEALY: And unfortunately,
in the last 30 years,
the pharmaceutical
industry has really
taken over American medicine.
>>LISA: So
brainwashed, in a way?
>>SHEALY: Absolutely.
>>LISA: That we need
to take a pill in order
to get rid of pain
and depression.
>>LISA: Right.
And you know, there's four
major studies, including
one in the New England
Journal of Medicne,
our most prestigious
journal, that
says if the pharmaceutical
companies had allowed all
the negative research
studies to be published,
the net result for
antidepressant drugs
would be zero.
>>LISA: So the placebo
effect is also in--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --those commercials
that we're seeing.
>>SHEALY: In everything.
So I can get 85% of people out
of depression, which is twice
as good as the best
reported drug, which is 42%.
>>LISA: So the
commercials that are
out there are saying that this
is going to make you feel good.
And that's part of the
effectiveness of the drug?
>>SHEALY: You bet.
>>LISA: Interesting.
And so, if we were to--
this is one of the reasons
we're talking to you-- is that
these things have scientific
data behind them, clinical
research, double blind,
have you--
>>SHEALY: Published data?
Yes.
You know, I've got 300
published articles as well as
my 28 books.
And yet, the average
physician is not
going to be exposed to this
because they're under pressure
from the pharmaceutical
industry.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
And sales are important, and
reputation relationships,
of course, of course.
>>SHEALY: I didn't allow drug
reps to come in my office.
>>LISA: You didn't when
you were a neurosurgeon?
>>SHEALY: No, I do think they
have anything to offer me.
>>LISA: Not with
the technologies
you-- have you always been
this much of a mad scientist
with your own evil technologies?
>>SHEALY: I've
been called worse.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: I didn't
mean it that way.
How do to know to create
these types of things, here?
>>SHEALY: Well, that's where
intuition comes in, of course.
And I can say that, you know,
I've got 14 patents now.
I could have had a few more.
Some things I don't patent just
because it's too much trouble.
>>LISA: So knowing what
you know, what do you
see is the future of medicine?
Go 20 years out.
>>SHEALY: Well
I'm hoping that we
are, as we go through this
current financial and other
crisis, going to
get to the point
where people need to become
responsible for themselves.
In other words, in my opinion,
your number one responsibility
is to take care of this body.
This is the temple in which
your soul has incarnated.
And if you don't
take care of it,
you can't expect somebody
else to do it for you.
>>LISA: Right, it's the
philosophy of pull the oxygen
mask down on yourself first and
then you can help other people.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>SHEALY: If you are able to
take care of yourself first.
So you think that
people are going
to start to, as I said
earlier, take their health back
into their own hands.
>>SHEALY: Right.
And, you know, health begins
at home, with an attitude.
First of all, it's an attitude.
I am OK and I'm
worth taking care of.
That's so critical.
>>LISA: So let's talk about
mindset and how much of it
has to do with
your belief system,
and is that where to start?
>>SHEALY: Oh, it's
absolutely where it starts.
You know, the one thing I
learned very early in my work
with chronic pain
patients who have
become invalids is
poor self esteem.
It is rampant in our society.
And if you don't have
good self esteem,
then you try to find
something outside yourself
to justify your existence.
And it doesn't work.
>>LISA: And is that what you
think is at the base of people
having a lack of belief
in themselves in order
to heal themselves?
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
And it starts
because they didn't
get feeling of being
adequately nurtured as a child.
>>LISA: Look all
around you and you
see all sorts of messages that
say that you're not enough.
>>SHEALY: Well, I
mean for 5,000 years
every religion in the
world has put women down,
which has got to be ridiculous!
We wouldn't be
here without women.
We're not cloned
out of something.
>>LISA: Right.
>>SHEALY: And secondly,
for 2,000 years
the Western churches have
said you're a sinner.
That's ridiculous.
>>LISA: A lot of guilt, yeah.
>>SHEALY: Yeah, and so it's
amazing to me that about 20%
of people escape, and
about 80% of people
are either depressed
or have what
I call a sub-clinical
depressive miasma.
They're about that
far from depression.
>>LISA: You've worked with
people who are clinically
depressed for--
>>SHEALY: Oh, heavens yes.
>>LISA: --40 something years.
And so you know everything
about a person who comes in
that either is it
circumstantial,
it's genetic, it's as
you said, psychosomatic.
>>SHEALY: And ultimately,
is very chemical.
There's more abnormal
chemistry in people
with depression than anything.
I mean, your serotonin,
your norepinephrine,
your beta endorphin, your
melatonin, your cholinesterase,
all of these things
are abnormal.
And if you don't normalize
those, it's not going to work.
And you can't normalize
those with drugs.
Interesting that the
antidepressant drugs talk
about it may be an effect upon
serotonin or norepinephrine.
Well, I want the effect,
not a maybe effect.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>SHEALY: And the
actually don't even
do those tests with
anti-depressant drugs, where
I do them with these devices.
>>LISA: Interesting.
I mean there's so many more
people that are, quote,
depressed today than ever.
>>SHEALY: Right.
>>LISA: Why is it?
>>SHEALY: This little device
alone, with nothing else,
will bring 50% of people out
of depression in two weeks,
without drugs, totally, safely.
>>LISA: Using nerve stimulation?
>>SHEALY: Electrical
stimulation transcranially.
>>LISA: In a very,
very small amperage.
>>SHEALY: Yeah, we're
talking about one milliamp
of a current.
>>LISA: Which is less, of
course, than a cellphone.
>>SHEALY: Right, exactly.
>>LISA: Which is
a lot of amperage.
>>SHEALY: But it's 15,000
cycles, this frequency,
of course.
The nervous system
works on frequency.
And so just by wear--
and you don't even
have to lie down or
meditate or anything.
You could walk around, eat
breakfast, while you doing it,
drive your car.
>>SHEALY: You've made them
incredibly convenient.
>>SHEALY: Right, it is.
>>LISA: And this is called the--
>>SHEALY: The Liss, L-I-S-S,
Cranial Electrical Stimulator.
And I discovered
this back in 1975.
And I've done all kinds
of research on it.
And it does raise serotonin.
In fact, I was one of
the first subjects,
of course-- I'm always
the ritual Guinea pig.
My serotonin, which is
quite normal to start with,
went up to five times the
upper limit of normal.
>>LISA: And you measured this
via blood tests and so forth?
>>SHEALY: And for
most people, it only
doubles their serotonin,
which is adequate.
>>LISA: Now
serotonin, of course,
does it pool in the brain--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --once you
increase the amount of it.
>>SHEALY: And it puts it
out into the bloodstream,
into the cerebral spinal fluid.
And that's what makes you
feel bright eyed and bushy
tailed and happy.
>>LISA: Does it stay
that way, though?
Does it pool in the brain?
>>SHEALY: If we do this
daily, for two weeks,
and then you do some
of the other training
that we do of reprogramming
the nervous system, yes.
>>LISA: OK, well I also
believe that all of this
starts with the mindset.
And that is absolutely
something the people need
to have in order to begin
any of these processes.
>>SHEALY: Absolutely critical.
>>LISA: In order to
be empowered as well.
>>SHEALY: Absolutely.
>>LISA: So, there's a wonderful
phrase that you say in the DVD.
And we're actually going to
show another one of the clips
from the DVD, The Secret Code.
And this was a prayer that
was-- what is the couple that--
>>SHEALY: Ambrose
and Olga Worrall.
And she's one of the most
studied healers in history.
In fact, they were both healers
at Mount Washington United
Methodist Church in
Baltimore for 35 years.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>SHEALY: Ambrose wrote
Essay On Prayer back in 1954.
>>LISA: '54, OK.
>>SHEALY: And it's just so
perfect because every thought
is a prayer--
>>LISA: Set in motion.
>>SHEALY: Prayer sets in
motion spiritual forces
to bring about change in
body, mind, emotions, desires,
hopes, and despairs.
We should focus not on the
elimination of a condition,
but on the creation of
the condition desired.
That's what's critical, not to
try to get rid of something,
but to create the
perfect something.
>>LISA: Absolutely, this
is very, very important.
I actually want to show
the clip, because Norm
goes through that
again, in this clip,
and really, really
pay attention.
Write this down if you can.
Let's see that clip.
>>SHEALY: The single
most important thing,
from my point of
view, is in general
except in acute
illnesses where you
must have proper
medical care, that's
where modern medicine is superb.
You need drugs,
you need surgery.
But in most chronic
illnesses, or illnesses
where the doctor says
it's all in your head,
or there's nothing
we can do, then
there's a whole plethora
of things that can help.
And I want people to
understand and see
the variety of safe alternatives
to drugs and surgery.
You know, these
individuals are failures
of conventional medicine.
They're 50% to 80% better.
>>MAN: Yeah.
>>SHEALY: And we've still got
time for them to continue.
>>MAN: Well you
know, we've talked
a lot about what you do here.
But you kept telling me
about the secret code.
What is it, Norm?
What is the secret code?
>>SHEALY: Well you've
heard me talk about--
>>MAN: Sure, Ambrose--
>>SHEALY: Ambrose Worrall.
>>MAN: Yeah.
>>SHEALY: Well, the secret code
was written by him in 1952.
And it's right here.
>>MAN: Oh.
>>SHEALY: It's been
here all along.
>>MAN: Right in
front of my nose.
>>SHEALY: "Every
thought is a prayer.
Thinking sets in
motion spiritual forces
to bring about change
in everything," he says.
Basically, the important
thing, from my point of view,
is there's no such
thing as non-thinking.
Words are substitutes
for images.
And as Ambrose went on to
say in his Essay On Prayer,
"It's created not in
words, but in images."
And you don't have
to say it in words;
you can do it either way.
The ultimate is you
do not try to get rid
of an undesired condition.
You create the desired
condition with words and images.
>>MAN: I think I get it.
>>SHEALY: You've
had it all along.
You just didn't remember it.
>>MAN: Thank you, Norm.
Everyone thanks you.
We've done well.
>>WOMAN: There is a medical
renaissance going on.
And this-- these are the
elements of that renaissance.
These are the new medicines.
These are the new treatments
of that renaissance.
This is the new language
of that renaissance,
and these are the
new practitioners.
>>MAN: Here is a place in
which we will open ourselves up
to dare to imagine
that we can create
new endings to the old story.
That we don't simply
have to recapitulate
the past, but that we have
an opportunity to change.
>>LISA: So we've gone
through a combination
of some of the technologies.
And now we've gone
through this last clip,
which was so
beautifully stating what
and how important
the belief system is,
and what it is that you
are telling yourself,
and that your
thoughts become things
when you put them into motion.
So with a combination of--
both of the knowledge of both
of those things--
and you know all
about the technologies and all
about the belief systems-- what
is the practical thing
that we can do at home now?
>>SHEALY: Well there's
several aspects
that are particularly important.
One of those is the
basic retraining
of the nervous system, which
would be autogenic training.
And the other is stimulating,
through vision and tapping,
specific acupuncture
circuits would
have very specific
biochemical effects.
>>LISA: What's some of the
science behind tapping?
I've heard about tapping.
It's also called something else.
>>SHEALY: Emotional
freedom technique
is the most commonly known one.
>>LISA: I need
one for the brain.
Yes, yes.
>>SHEALY: Well, you know, I've
been doing this for 40 years,
because we are
piezoelectric beings.
Our body is like a
giant quartz crystal.
So if I do that, I actually
produce an electric current.
And it may not be
quite as effective
as putting in the 54 to 78
billion cycle, but it works.
And it works very well.
And for instance, especially
with the ring of air,
I've had people go into a
deep, deep state of trance
just from tapping the points.
>>LISA: So tapping is
basically sending a signal
through the electrical
signals of the body.
>>SHEALY: Right.
>>LISA: And it stimulates the
production of various chemicals
in the body--
>>SHEALY: Exactly
>>LISA: --naturally.
>>SHEALY: Naturally.
>>LISA: Naturally.
And these are hormones,
neurotransmitters,
all sorts of things.
OK, great.
>>SHEALY: And of course,
interestingly, way
back 20 years ago,
I demonstrated
that when we stimulate
electrically certain points,
it follows these
acupuncture meridians.
So if I stimulate this, this
produces and electrical current
that comes up here,
specifically right into there.
And then it joins
with another one
that goes down the
front of the body.
>>LISA: And this is the
main nerve of the face.
>>SHEALY: Right.
This is-- well large
intestine meridian.
According to Ukrainian
nuclear physicists,
the internal organs
project to the surface
of the body a
projection electrically.
It's actually a two way circuit.
From the heart, for
instance, goes from here
down to the tip of the
little finger and back again.
And so I have developed
five different circuits,
which have very specific effects
upon chemistry and health.
>>LISA: OK, so let's go
through some of these.
This is amazing.
So they're called rings.
>>SHEALY: Rings,
because it is a circuit.
>>LISA: OK, and so there's
certain rings of the body
that we're going to be
experiencing and tapping
on and learning about.
So what is the first one?
>>SHEALY: The ring of air.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Now the ring of
air is for developing, quote,
simultaneity of thought.
In other words, for
developing intuition.
For getting into that state of
detachment from worry worting,
to really being in touch
with the inner self,
the mystical self, if you
will, the spiritual self.
>>LISA: The detachment from
the obsessive, frenetic--
>>SHEALY: The broken
records that we play.
>>LISA: Yes, thinking
from that activity
to something that is more
cohesive and detached
in away from the
Buddhist philosophy.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
And to me, that is
my basic philosophy,
detached from the things
you cannot change,
not be judgmental, have
no need to know why,
and to be at peace.
That's utter detachment.
>>LISA: That's beautiful.
That's beautifully stated.
That's a zero stress zone.
>>SHEALY: And that's
where we should be.
And of course, when you
stimulate the ring of air,
that's what it does for
you, because it activates
two of the most important
chemicals that put you
into that state, neurotensin,
which is a, quote, neuroleptic.
A neuroleptic is a
chemical we produce
in the brain that actually
helps us-- that's delightful.
I don't have to
worry about that.
>>LISA: I love the-- does this.
So our bodies produce
these chemicals on its own.
>>SHEALY: Right.
>>LISA: So it
doesn't overproduce.
It knows the exact amount
that we need to produce.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
And when we are
stimulating-- and I've
been doing this in one way
or another for many years--
I've never seen
anybody overproduce.
>>LISA: Ah, interesting, right.
Because the body--
>>SHEALY: Under produce, yes.
But we can activate the body
to regenerate its ability
to make its own.
So the ring of air activates
neurotensin and oxytocin,
which is the bonding,
nurturing hormone.
>>LISA: Really?
So by tapping on these various
meridians in the body--
so let's try this at home.
I encourage you to
try this at home.
OK, so there are various points
in the body we're going to--
>>SHEALY: That's right.
With the ring of
air, of course, we're
going to begin at the
tip of the big toe.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then we go
on the top of the foot,
between the first
toe and the big toe.
Then would go up the side
of the calf, right up
the outside of the bone,
both sides, of course.
>>LISA: And we just
tapping on these to--
>>SHEALY: Just tap,
that's all it takes.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
And this-- what
meridian is this?
>>SHEALY: This is stomach 36.
Energetically this is the second
strongest acupuncture point
in the human body, stomach 36.
>>LISA: Why?
Why is that the
second strongest?
>>SHEALY: It just energetically
carries more oomph,
if you will.
The strongest is
Hoku, it doesn't
happen to be in
any of the rings.
This is Hoku, or
large intestine four.
So we take the
energy from the toes,
feet, up the sides of
the calf, comes across
to the base of the spine.
>>LISA: OK, we're standing.
>>SHEALY: Then--
>>LISA: Back here?
>>SHEALY: The very
bottom of the spine.
>>LISA: OK, all right.
Base of the spine, tapping--
>>SHEALY: --vessel one.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Comes all the way up
to the top governing vessel 16.
>>LISA: The back, so we're
on the back here, OK.
>>SHEALY: Now, it crosses
inside and comes out
below the collar bones.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Right out by the
shoulders on both sides.
>>LISA: All right.
>>SHEALY: Then it goes under
that, up the side of the neck
and halfway across
the back of the skull.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Gallbladder 20.
>>LISA: These areas
right here, OK.
>>SHEALY: And then all of them
meet at governing vessel 20.
>>LISA: So we've pulled
the energy all the way up.
>>SHEALY: It also goes
back down, of course.
So in a well circulated, if you
will, balanced body the energy
comes up and it goes down.
>>LISA: And that's what the
flow-- and doing this process,
and tapping on those things
that you saw on the diagram,
is the way to produce--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --neurotensin--
>>SHEALY: And oxytocin.
>>LISA: And oxytocin.
>>SHEALY: And, of course,
you can associate that also
with some wonderful
guided imagery.
>>LISA: OK, right, as well.
>>SHEALY: For instance,
imagine that you're
breathing in through the
tips of your big toes.
>>LISA: Oh, I see.
>>SHEALY: Right into
the center of your foot,
and back out again, into
the top of your feet,
right into the center.
>>LISA: So as you're doing
the tapping you can--
>>SHEALY: Imagine you're
breathing into your calves.
Imagine you're breathing
into the base of your spine,
up to the top.
This is Kundalini rising,
the Kundalini energy
comes right up the spine.
>>LISA: And, for people that
aren't familiar with it,
what is the Kundalini energy?
>>SHEALY: Well, this is your
stored sexual and, essentially,
connection with body,
mind, and spirit energy.
>>LISA: This is the fire.
>>SHEALY: The fire.
>>LISA: Although
it's the ring of air.
Because there's
also a ring of fire.
>>SHEALY: Of course.
Well, but this part of it is
that-- this particular circuit
is for Kundalini energy.
And often, if you have
a spontaneous Kundalini
experience, which I
did about 15 years ago,
it really changes
your consciousness.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
You can actually do all of that
from just stimulating meridians
in the body.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Again,
without medication.
All right, so
there's another ring.
There's five total that
we're going to go through.
The other one is
the ring of crystal.
>>SHEALY: Well the
ring of crystal
is wonderful for
rejuvenation because it truly
reduces free radicals.
Free radicals are those
by-products of metabolism
that actually kill cells.
I mean, you are
producing free radicals.
That's an oxygen molecule
that's looking for a home.
So all illnesses, wrinkling,
and ultimately death
are the result of
excess free radicals.
>>LISA: So this is the--
basically the anti-aging ring.
>>SHEALY: If you could keep your
free radicals down, minimal,
most people are running what
I call a three plus to a four
plus--
>>LISA: Mm hm.
>>SHEALY: --you could
keep them down to half--
>>LISA: OK, because there's a
lot of toxins out in the world.
So that does create
free radicals.
>>SHEALY: Exactly, and stress.
>>LISA: Right, we
could create our own.
>>SHEALY: Right.
And so if you could
just keep them
down low like that, every seven
years every cell in your body
is reproduced.
It wears out.
Now, some cells
faster than that.
But all of them
within seven years.
So if you kept your free
radicals down that low,
they would be born
again like baby cells.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So you can really stimulate
the regrowth of these cells
and reduce the amount of free
radicals running in the body
by tapping--
>>SHEALY: The ring of crystal.
>>LISA: The ring of crystal.
>>SHEALY: And it reduces
free radicals by 85%.
Nothing else has ever been found
to reduce free radicals that
much.
>>LISA: Not even vitamin C.
>>SHEALY: Right, not
even vitamin-- not even
intravenous vitamin C.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>SHEALY: And I've
looked at all of that.
So tapping the ring of
crystal is really important.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And would you--
>>LISA: Let's do it, yes.
Let's do a demonstration.
>>SHEALY: We start at the feet.
This the spleen
four, right here.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then we come up--
>>LISA: All right, I'm
doing this along with you.
>>SHEALY: --and halfway
at the bottom of buttocks,
halfway front to
back of the thighs.
So right in the center.
>>LISA: Where your
hip bones are.
>>SHEALY: Right, you're
right on the bone itself.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then it comes up to
just above the belly button,
and exactly the same point
over the spine in the back.
>>LISA: So these points
match in the body.
>>SHEALY: These points match.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And then you go up to
the bottom of the breast bone,
and I switch arms then so your
shoulder doesn't get hurt,
and you do this one.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then you come up to
the top of your Eve's Apple.
>>LISA: My Eve's, your Adam.
>>SHEALY: And then I
don't tap there, I twist.
Because you don't want to
bruise your vocal cords.
And tap in the back.
>>LISA: Now why are you doing
the points across the body,
here?
What's the significance of that?
>>SHEALY: Because that's
what I was told to do.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: You know,
you just get that--
>>LISA: That's the scientific
explanation right there.
>>SHEALY: --that says do
this, that's what you do,
and it works.
Then you go here,
at the front where
the ear comes into the scalp.
>>LISA: OK, and you can also
massage these points, just
circular motion.
>>SHEALY: Yeah.
You can do that, or that.
OK, and then again--
>>LISA: The top.
>>SHEALY: --governing vessel 20.
>>LISA: Governing vessel, OK.
And this is stimulating,
as you mentioned--
>>SHEALY: It reduces
free radicals.
Malondialdehyde
is a chemical that
is a waste product
of fat metabolism
so that when the free
radicals damages a cell,
the cell wall, the fatty
outline of the cell
disappears and comes out in
the urine as malondialdehyde.
And so that's what
you're measuring
when you measure
free radical damage.
>>LISA: Oh, I see, OK, right.
Right, and you have a
test for that that shows--
>>SHEALY: Very simple test.
>>LISA: All right.
So far we've simulated
our oxytocin.
We've gotten rid of
a few free radicals.
Now we're going to move
into the ring of fire.
>>SHEALY: Ah, now
that was actually
the first one I started with,
because I started looking
at DHEA, dehydroepiandrosterone.
And my first intuitive hit
was that maybe the reason
we lose DHEA is that
progesterone stops
being made in women
after menopause.
>>LISA: OK, so it declines.
>>SHEALY: And so I
started off doing it
in seven men who had
low DHEA, giving them
natural progesterone cream.
And lo and behold,
it raised their DHEA.
And when I published this,
a professor of endocrinology
from France wrote, there's
no pathway to do this.
Well by that time I
had dozens of people.
It's a good thing my
patients don't know this,
because they can do it.
>>LISA: They were saying that
it was working, interesting.
>>SHEALY: Right, but if
you start off at 100,
and your ideal is 450 or above,
and you double it, it's good
but it's not good enough.
So I sat down one day and
I said what else can I do?
And here is what
I essentially got.
If I would stimulate the points
that connect the kidneys, which
are your ancestral
chi, with the gonads,
with the adrenal glands, with
the thyroid, and the pituitary,
through a window of the sky
point, it will raise DHEA.
And that is the ring of fire.
>>LISA: Now DHEA also has many
benefits for women, as well.
>>SHEALY: It has
phenomenal benefits.
It's the youth hormone.
>>LISA: Mm, again.
>>SHEALY: It's, again, a
major anti-aging component.
And all people lose DHEA
after age 25, depending
upon the amount of stress they
have and upon their genetics.
>>LISA: So it's
a stress reducer?
>>SHEALY: Yes, it
is a stress reducer.
Well actually what happens
is, is true burnout
is losing the
ability to make DHEA.
>>LISA: Right, right.
So it's adrenal
function, I should say.
It supports adrenal function
more than reducing stress.
>>SHEALY: Yeah, it reduces
the effects of stress.
And then-- so we looked
at what will it do human?
Well, there are diseases I
would call diseases of fire.
Migraine, reduces migraines 75%.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHEALY: Diabetic
neuropathy, where
people are losing feeling in
their feet, and having pain,
80%.
>>LISA: So if someone's in
the throes of a migraine,
or feels one coming on, they
can stimulate these points
in the body--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --and reduce the
effects of the migraine.
>>SHEALY: Right.
>>LISA: And you've seen
this in clinical practice?
>>SHEALY: Oh, we've
published articles
showing that this works.
>>LISA: Amazing.
Great.
>>SHEALY: Depression,
another disease of fire,
a lack of adequate fire.
>>LISA: A lack of DHEA.
>>SHEALY: And a lack of
the-- oh, interestingly, it
also raises testosterone in men.
>>LISA: Another
thing for the men.
Good for you.
>>SHEALY: One of my listeners
started doing it on her husband
and doubled his testosterone
in three months.
>>LISA: That's a whole
nother show, Norm.
OK, so we're going
on to ring of fire.
So it raises DHEA.
What are the points
in the ring of fire?
You can see this on
your screen, by the way.
>>SHEALY: Well here
we start kidney three.
This is your ancestral chi.
This is the home of your
inherited life energy.
>>LISA: OK, so again
we're starting--
>>SHEALY: Behind
the ankle bones.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then you go
to the pubic bone--
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Right on the bone.
And immediately off to
the side of your spine,
opposite the belly
button, that's the--
>>LISA: On the left
side of your spine?
>>SHEALY: Well, I
do the left side
when I'm doing the pubic bone,
which is conception vessel one,
with bladder 22.
But there's a bladder
22 on the other side.
And we do that with the one
just below the belly button.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: So that's
another pair,
because you want to
energy to go through.
>>LISA: Now this is if you're
in the throes of a migraine,
you do this.
You start with down here,
we're going to stand up.
And then we go here on the left
side, and then the right side.
OK, next.
>>SHEALY: And then you go
up to mast of the heart.
Now this is a very
important one right here,
because this is the control
center for the sympathetic,
the alarm, the
adrenaline system.
So you want to turn that down.
>>LISA: So if you're in
that panic place as well,
this is a really good place to--
>>SHEALY: Ahh!
>>LISA: --tap on.
>>SHEALY: Go hard.
>>LISA: Yeah, to calm
yourself down, OK.
>>SHEALY: And, of course,
then you go up to the window
of the sky point--
>>LISA: Window of the sky?
>>SHEALY: --which is
large intestine 18.
It's just below
the mastoid bone.
>>LISA: Right where
the TMJ point is.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
And that's very important.
Because this now brings
the energy right up
and you come to the
top of the head.
And now you bring that
through the pituitary, down
to conception vessel 18,
which is the thyroid point.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness.
Can you actually stimulate
the thyroid gland?
>>SHEALY: You see,
actually we're
stimulating gonads, adrenal
glands, thyroid gland,
pituitary gland,
the entire endocrine
system with this
particular circuit.
>>LISA: Your sex
hormones, your--
>>SHEALY: Adrenals, for DHEA.
>>LISA: Amazing,
so you really can--
and you can really feel that.
I can actually really feel that.
The top of my head is pulsing.
That's amazing.
So if you're in the throes of
stress, or in extreme stress,
or a migraine, or
anything like that,
you can start to move
the body so that--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --it gets into
a place of coherence--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --and a lot
clearer thinking.
And something like that.
That's amazing.
That's really great.
All right, so that's
the ring of fire.
>>SHEALY: And it is phenomenally
powerful, clinically.
>>LISA: I can tell.
I can absolutely tell.
That's great.
And also, it allows you to
think a lot clearer, too.
>>SHEALY: Of course.
>>LISA: Yeah, interesting.
>>SHEALY: Well all
of them, I think,
will do that because
they all include window
to the sky points, different
window to the sky points.
Windows of the sky, in
classic Chinese cosmology,
are allowing the opening up of
the body mind with the spirit.
>>LISA: OK, OK, I understand.
Now what if you're on
any type of medication
that either supplements
your thyroid
or supplements various chemicals
in the body, does it matter?
>>SHEALY: No problem.
Obviously, I have
many people who
want to get off
thyroid medication.
And I say well, here's what
I would do in that situation.
First of all I'd
take some iodine,
because we're usually
deficient in iodine.
And then start tapping
the ring of fire.
And after a couple
weeks to a month,
cut your thyroid
medication in half.
Continue that for
the second month.
And then cut out your
thyroid medication.
Wait another month, continue the
tapping, continue the iodine,
and then check your
thyroid function.
>>LISA: So don't check it
intermittently via blood tests.
Check at the
beginning and the end?
>>SHEALY: Right, actually if you
just check your temperature--
>>LISA: Oh, right.
>>SHEALY: --that'll work fine.
If your temperature
is below 98.6
when you've been out of
bed three hours or more,
you're hypothyroid.
It's that simple.
>>LISA: Yes, so you need
to supplement your thyroid
in either through the
ring stimulations,
and breathing into the
rings, and guided meditation,
and imagery, and so forth.
And you can do it
in various ways.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: In several ways.
Have your clients,
or your patients,
actually gotten off
of thyroid medication?
>>SHEALY: Oh, heavens yes.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHEALY: Oh, yeah.
>>LISA: A lot of people?
>>SHEALY: Well, yeah, if your
thyroid hasn't been taken out--
>>LISA: Right.
>>SHEALY: --you
can rejuvenate it.
Now once it's been
out-- but interestingly,
thyroid replacement is
really, of all the glandulars,
safer and more effective
long term than any of them.
>>LISA: Yes, I mean,
that's why there's
medications that are for life
in that particular-- yeah.
>>SHEALY: My mother had
her thyroid gland taken out
in 1954.
And she was on thyroid until
she died three years ago.
>>LISA: Mm, wow, my goodness.
All right, so the next one
is the ring of earth, right?
>>SHEALY: Now the ring of
earth is a very important ring
because it raises calcitonin.
And calcitonin is
another hormone
made in the thyroid gland.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting, OK.
>>SHEALY: But it is responsible
for keeping bone healthy,
putting calcium into your bone.
Now as you probably know,
the most common cause
of death in the elderly
is a fractured hip,
because of osteoporosis.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>SHEALY: Calcitonin helps
keep the bone strong.
But calcitonin is also 40 to 60
times as powerful as morphine
for reducing pain.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>SHEALY: So as a
single ring, if you
will, for pain control,
the ring of Earth
is critically important.
>>LISA: So also, the calcitonin
that the body is producing
itself is the right
kind of calcium.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Sometimes the
calcium that we take--
>>SHEALY: It's calcitonin,
it's not calcium.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: It's a hormone.
>>LISA: Thanks.
>>SHEALY: It keeps calcium
going into the bone.
But if you don't
have calcitonin,
you can have all the
calcium you want and it
won't get into the bone.
>>LISA: Get into the
bone, interesting.
>>SHEALY:
Interestingly, the drug
that is available
for calcitonin is
one of those made out
of salmon calcitonin.
So you can have an
allergic reaction to that.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>SHEALY: You can die
from anaphylaxis, shock.
But you're not going to die
from making your own calcitonin.
>>LISA: From-- all right.
So let's figure out to the
rings that you-- the acupressure
points that you tap in order
to stimulate the calcitonin.
>>SHEALY: OK.
>>LISA: And you can also
see this on the diagram.
>>LISA: Now this, there's
only one acupuncture point
on the sole of the
foot, right there.
That's kidney one.
>>LISA: OK.
And you can see that on
the diagram as well, OK.
>>SHEALY: Now, then you
go outside the ankle bone,
behind it.
And that--
>>LISA: Is also stimulating--
>>SHEALY: --is bladder 60, a
very strong bladder meridian
point.
Then you go right behind the
very center, behind the knee.
>>LISA: The knee, OK.
>>SHEALY: Right
up in the center.
>>LISA: OK, we've
got that, all right.
OK.
I'm looking at the diagram
at the same time, OK great.
>>SHEALY: Right.
OK, now you come up here
behind the collar bone.
And this is large intestine 16.
>>LISA: This is where
all the stress gets held.
>>SHEALY: Exactly,
it's right in that
hollow behind the collar bone.
Then you come over
here-- now, here's
another where we pinch
instead of tap, because you're
right over the carotid artery.
So right beside the top
of your Eve's apple.
And you just turn--
take it and twist.
Because you can
really pinch, that's
still physical stimulation.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And you take-- go
behind the muscle that turns
your neck--
>>LISA: Which is
a very big muscle.
>>SHEALY: Uh huh, and
there you can tap.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And that of
course is another window
to the sky point.
And then you wind up--
>>LISA: They're all winding
up on the top of the head.
>>SHEALY: They're all
interconnected right there.
>>LISA: And this-- does
this activate them all?
Or is it just a way of
bringing the energy up?
>>SHEALY: It's a way of bringing
the energy up so it then
can move back down.
>>LISA: OK, OK, great.
And then, how many times
a day do you do these?
>>SHEALY: Well in general,
depending upon your need.
Once a day for most people,
twice a day at the most.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: How long does it take?
Well as you know,
I've been playing
with making it as
simple as possible.
So what we've found
in the last few months
is that we've now produced
an essential oil mixture
that I call Bliss, and
that is specifically
for the ring of air.
And so there, you could just
take this little bottle,
which is roll on.
It has a, to me,
a blissful smell.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
That smell's
combination of-- what
are the oils that's in that?
>>SHEALY: A bunch of
oils, five different oils.
>>LISA: OK, yeah.
>>SHEALY: One of them is
exquisitely rare, and even more
expensive than rose oil,
which is expensive enough.
>>LISA: Which has a
very high frequency.
>>SHEALY: Right,
and this other one
is even higher
frequency than rose oil.
And you just, like you
start off at the big toe.
>>LISA: I actually
want to do a whole--
a whole demonstration
of this later.
Because this one will take
us to a different place,
which is great.
This is really, really
good, the Bliss one is.
But there's another
ring, there's five.
I wanted to complete that.
>>SHEALY: Water.
>>LISA: Water,
the ring of water.
Now can you do all five
of these rings in a row?
Do you do them on separate days?
>>SHEALY: In general, if
you just maintain health,
I would do one a day and
start over, a circuit.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>SHEALY: That's total balance.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Now if you've got an
illness that specifically needs
it, like osteoporosis
and pain, you're
going to concentrate
probably on fire and earth.
If you've got autism, you
concentrate on earth and air.
I had a little four-year-old
boy, I'm sorry,
an eight-year-old boy,
who spoke 50 words.
I had his mother start
stimulating the ring of air
and the ring of earth.
Within three weeks he
was speaking 450 words.
Within three months
he was a chatterbox.
>>LISA: By stimulating
the meridians.
>>SHEALY: Just by
stimulating these two
circuits in an autistic child.
His neurologist was so impressed
he bought the equipment
to start stimulating
his patients with it.
>>LISA: No, that's wonderful.
That's something that
can be done at home.
I mean, once again,
this is safe.
This is effective.
Any side effects?
>>SHEALY: None.
>>LISA: I couldn't imagine.
And this is also, I mean,
it's safe, cost effective,
it doesn't take a lot of
time, something you can do
and empower yourself at home.
>>SHEALY: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Yeah, these
are very good.
So you were mentioning
the ring of water.
>>SHEALY: Ring of water
raises aldosterone.
In fact, it normalizes
aldosterone.
The two abnormalities
of aldosterone
that occur as part of disease
are excess or deficiency.
So in congestive heart
failure, for instance,
you have a problem with
aldosterone metabolism,
another adrenal hormone.
>>LISA: Is that with that is?
Aldosterone is an
adrenal hormone?
>>SHEALY: It balances
water and potassium.
So if you've got swelling
of the legs, for instance,
this would be one to do.
It also is for emotions.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And so
the ring of water
is specifically
for people who've
got emotional distress
and heart distress.
>>LISA: And is it
also depression?
>>SHEALY: Not as
much, it certainly--
>>LISA: It's more so distress.
>>SHEALY: It's more for stress.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And for burnout
in a different sense.
>>LISA: OK, so there's
definitely a difference.
And this is also
one that you said
is used for, I mean, people
with heart conditions,
heart disease?
>>SHEALY: Congestive
heart failure, especially,
high blood pressure.
Any of those things like that
would be good for this one.
>>LISA: Wonderful,
really wonderful.
OK, all right, so
what are these rings?
>>SHEALY: Well, we start--
>>LISA: Another demonstration.
>>SHEALY: This is the only
place, other than here,
where there's a duplication,
spleen four, the one here
on the foot.
Because water is a crystal.
And so it starts off with that.
>>LISA: The actual
formation of water.
>>SHEALY: Exactly,
from right here.
>>LISA: OK.
Norm's doing all
of the feet tapping
because I didn't want
to take the boots off.
>>SHEALY: That's all
right, that's OK.
>>LISA: I'm still a girl.
OK.
>>SHEALY: Now, you want to come
up to just below the breast
bone now, right in the
front but below the bone,
and directly in the back.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Then, if you
reach your long fingers down
over your shoulders, an inch to
the side, that is bladder 13.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And you come up
to the top of the neck,
just below the skull,
about a half inch
to either side,
that's bladder 10.
Then you go to the
heart meridian.
>>LISA: Left hand.
>>SHEALY: The heart--
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: --right here.
You remember--
>>LISA: On the outside.
>>SHEALY: --when you
have a heart attack,
people often have pains
in the little finger.
>>LISA: Mm hm.
>>SHEALY: Well this is
the heart-- the biggest,
strongest point on
the heart meridian.
>>LISA: Right there.
>>SHEALY: Right in
that little depression.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And, of course--
>>LISA: Top of the head.
>>SHEALY: Top of the head.
>>LISA: Our favorite point.
>>LISA: All right, well, we
are just completely fine now.
We have no disease,
we have no stress,
and we have every
hormone we need.
We're in good shape.
>>SHEALY: Basically,
I think, if you
do this with that state of
consciousness, detachment,
and being at peace
while doing it,
I think it really does have a
powerful rejuvenative effect.
>>LISA: And in terms of your
clinical usage, how long
have you been using the rings
in your clinical practice?
>>SHEALY: 15 years.
>>LISA: 50 years?
>>SHEALY: 15.
>>LISA: 15.
OK, 15 years.
>>SHEALY: 15.
>>LISA: And your-- your
application of the--
and you've, of course,
let a lot of other people
know about this, which
is one of the things
that we're doing today.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: And the responses
that you've been getting back?
>>SHEALY: Phenomenal.
I mean, I get-- every
week, people all over.
Even from England.
One of the most interesting
ones, a massage therapist
in England started
using the rings
on a man who was
confined to a wheelchair.
Within a month he's
out of the wheelchair.
And within six weeks he
took the first vacation
he had in 10 years.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>SHEALY: Phenomenal.
>>LISA: He was walking?
>>SHEALY: He was able to
get up and walk again,
with a congenital
neurologic disease.
>>LISA: And by doing-- the
therapist did all five rings?
>>SHEALY: She was
actually primarily doing
water-- I'm sorry, fire and air.
>>LISA: And in terms
of stories like that,
you hear those all day long?
>>SHEALY: Every week.
>>LISA: All over the world.
>>SHEALY: Email
and otherwise, yes.
>>LISA: That's amazing.
And so people, of course-- you
were going to say something?
>>SHEALY: Well, yeah,
I wanted to say,
and, of course, because of
the complexity of doing this
electrically, that's
why I've worked
on developing essential oils.
I've now-- next
week I'm actually
going to test my new
oil mixture for fire.
And the week after
that, my new oil
mixture for calcitonin
for the ring of Earth.
Because I think these
frequencies of the oils
can complement and
intensify application
to the specific points.
>>LISA: So what
we're going to do
is we're going to go into
that demonstration of using
the oils, finding out
what their application is,
and what the usage
of each oil is.
And then use that
to stimulate bliss.
>>SHEALY: Bliss.
>>LISA: Yes, all right.
We'll do that when we come back.
Doctor Shealy, in your
clinical practice,
what are some of the
biggest complaint's
that you hear from patients?
>>SHEALY: Well the most
common is depression, anxiety,
and number three is cholesterol.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHEALY: Oh, you know,
it's such a plague
that is the pharmaco
mafia's approach to it.
They put everybody
on a statin drug.
I used to say you couldn't
pay me a billion dollars
to take one.
And now I'll say a trillion.
I would not take a statin
drug for $1 trillion
because it damages your
kidney, your liver,
your peripheral nervous
system, your muscle, including
your heart muscle,
and your brain.
But other than that,
they're not so bad.
>>LISA: Well, wait.
Now there's millions
of people on them.
>>SHEALY: And millions of people
are at risk for having serious
complications, Alzheimer's.
Congestive heart failure
has doubled in frequency
since the onset of statin drugs.
Nobody's paying attention to it.
Peripheral nerve damage,
muscle weakness and pain.
And there's so many safe
ways to lower cholesterol.
>>LISA: So let's
talk about that.
Because I don't want to
invalidate all the people
that are on these.
Millions of people
that are on them.
>>SHEALY: If they're
going to take them,
they must add CoQ10, ubiquinol.
It will help prevent many
of the complications.
In fact, the drug companies
knew this originally,
but they never tell
anybody about it.
>>LISA: Some physicians do
know that, to add CoQ10.
And how much?
>>SHEALY: Well a minimum
of 100 to 200 milligrams
if you're taking a statin drug.
But even with that,
I wouldn't take one,
because there's certain
things you could do,
like the beta sitosterol,
a natural sterol that
comes out of vegetables.
It works fine.
>>LISA: Where do you
get something like?
>>SHEALY: At a
health food store.
>>LISA: Beta?
>>SHEALY: Sitosterol,
S-I-T-O-S-T-E-R-O-L.
400 milligrams,
three times a day.
Now the one that works
at least as well,
and infinitely safer, and
has been around for 50 years,
is timed release niacin.
Statistically speaking, just
as effective without any
of those complications.
>>LISA: Vitamin B, basically.
>>SHEALY: Well it's a
relative, but you know,
it's that kind of thing.
Lecithin, lecithin
helps lower it.
It emulsifies fat.
So it helps.
>>LISA: Mm, lowers
cholesterol, interesting.
Can you take these things--
and, OK, what else?
I'm sorry, I didn't
mean to interrupt you.
>>SHEALY: Well
L-arginine, an amino acid.
That can help lower it.
Taurine, another amino acid.
So you explore safe options.
>>LISA: So if you were
going to-- taking those five
different supplements, could
you feasibly, or have you
seen people in your
clinical experience
reduce the amount of
statin drugs they take?
>>SHEALY: Off.
Not reduce, off.
What I suggest is, if you
really have a big problem
to start with, start with
time released niacin.
After one week cut your
statin drug in half.
>>LISA: And continue
to do tests,
around cholesterol
tests and stuff?
>>SHEALY: Don't test yet.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Cut it in half.
After another two weeks,
stop the statin drug.
And then a few weeks later
check your cholesterol.
The chances are you're going
to be at least as good, if not
better, than when you
were on a statin drug.
>>LISA: Sometimes I get
concerned about telling people
to get off of
their statin drugs.
>>SHEALY: Well you
have to ween off,
come off slowly, over a
period two to four weeks.
Same is true with
antidepressant drugs.
>>LISA: Lets talk about
that, antidepressants.
So--
>>SHEALY: Well I've
weened thousands
of people off antidepressant
drugs, and again, same thing.
I start with using something
like the Liss cranial
stimulator.
And today I would start with the
Bliss because it works so well.
And then after a couple of
weeks, cut your antidepressant
drug in half, continue
doing the alternatives.
After four weeks stop
the antidepressant drug.
And if you're doing well,
you don't need it anymore.
>>LISA: Now the Liss
we talked about earlier
and we saw the demonstration
on the video earlier.
You need a--
>>SHEALY: A prescription.
>>LISA: --prescription in
order to buy the device.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Explain.
>>SHEALY: Well your
FDA-- your FDA--
>>LISA: My personal FDA.
>>SHEALY: --requires it.
>>LISA: It requires it.
And then--
>>SHEALY: Every other
country in the world
they're over the counter.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>SHEALY: Only in this country.
>>LISA: And you buy them online?
>>SHEALY: Oh, you can buy them
in department stores, even.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHEALY: Yeah.
>>LISA: The Liss device?
>>SHEALY: And regular TENS, too.
>>LISA: And the
TENS units, right.
>>SHEALY: In Tokyo, go to the
department store and buy them.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
Well, or you can
get a prescription,
most doctors won't
know what it is,
so they don't know what
they're prescribing.
>>SHEALY: That's
the real problem.
But holistic physicians will.
>>LISA: OK, of course.
And then they can look on your
website to do the research--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --which is normshealy?
>>SHEALY: Normshealy.com
>>LISA: Normshealy.com.
OK, so that and now
I want to really
talk about the depression
for a little bit here.
Because there's, as we
talked about earlier,
circumstantial depression,
chemical depression,
genetic depression.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: So what
exactly is the Bliss?
This is something that
you've come up with.
>>SHEALY: It is something
that I've come up with.
It's a mixture of five very
specific essential oils
that are rare and,
in combination,
work synergistically to activate
this particular circuit.
Now obviously you can have some
effect just from smelling it.
>>LISA: Right.
>>SHEALY: But when you
put it on these points,
the energy of the oils
goes into the acupuncture--
you could put it on one point
and within a minute or less
you'll taste it.
>>LISA: Well,
that's interesting.
So it goes through the body.
What is it about the blend
of those essential oils,
and what are they?
>>SHEALY: Well I can't
tell you one of them.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And the reason for
that is that it's so rare,
and I have been ripped
off a few times.
So I'm not giving this one away.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Each of
the oils that I'm
developing for specific rings
will be a combination of things
that I intuitively have chosen.
>>LISA: I'm just
curious as to how
you went from a neurosurgeon
to using essential oils.
>>SHEALY: Well,
you know, I started
with transcutaneous
electrical nerve
stimulation, and dorsal
column stimulation,
and those were intuitive gifts.
They came out of the
sky, if you will.
>>LISA: And combined with
your vast body of knowledge.
>>SHEALY: Well, you know, I've
been at this for 50 years.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>SHEALY: And so, now I
can put together an oil
and then test it.
And I can test it chemically.
And we've tested this one.
And we know that it does
raise oxytocin as well
as neurotensin.
>>LISA: I am
smelling baby powder.
>>SHEALY: Well--
>>LISA: And I know
it's not in there.
>>SHEALY: There's
no baby powder.
It's a blend of--
interestingly I've only
had two people out of hundreds
who think it's too strong.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>SHEALY: Even though it's
sweet, most men-- it has enough
muskiness into it that
most men like it too.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>SHEALY: And people
are sleeping better
by doing it at bedtime.
For someone who needs it
for depression especially,
or anxiety, I say
use it at bedtime
and use it first
thing in the morning.
>>LISA: They should use
it on airplanes, red eyes.
>>SHEALY: I think
we should spray it
over cities all over the world.
>>LISA: All right,
so we're going
to do a demonstration of it.
I'm not going to personally
do the demonstration
because I won't be
able to say a word.
But I think it's important
because it gets you
into-- what type of
state is desired?
>>SHEALY: Well it's
that simultaneity
of thought, detached,
being at peace.
You know--
>>LISA: Coherence.
>>SHEALY: --not having to worry.
>>LISA: OK, OK, all right.
And these specific points
on the body, you have chosen
or you have done--
>>SHEALY: We worked
those out originally.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: And so we start down
at the tip of the big toe,
by the nail, at the very tip.
And that's all you do.
And then you go on
top of the foot.
>>LISA: Doctor Shealy's
doing it through his socks
because he didn't have
his pedicure today.
>>SHEALY: You come up outside.
>>LISA: OK, great.
Outside on that
major point again.
>>SHEALY: Outside the bone.
And right up at the top.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Now here in public--
>>LISA: Uh oh.
>>SHEALY: No, no.
I just have to loosen that
enough to go inside my pants.
>>LISA: Oh, I see, OK.
Well where we're
going is right here.
>>SHEALY: The very
base of the spine.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHEALY: Right there.
>>LISA: On the
base of the spine.
And this is also known
as the first chakra.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: Survivalistic
point of body.
>>SHEALY: And it comes up to the
top of the spine, just below.
>>LISA: Oh, OK,
right back here, OK.
>>SHEALY: And then, if I
were doing it in sequence,
I'd go to the point just
below the collar bone.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: That should be tender.
If it's not tender,
you're not on the point.
>>LISA: Oh yeah, that's tender.
>>SHEALY: That is
tender in everybody.
And then halfway across
the base of the skull.
>>LISA: Both points on
>>SHEALY: And then the top.
And that's it.
And you know, on one
my radio shows back
every Thursday, Vince Finelli
and I start the show saying,
we just Blissed out.
>>LISA: That's a
show for the '60s.
This is an experience that
is-- it's definitely worth
experiencing.
But this is something
that enables
you to be in a positive state.
>>SHEALY: Right, and--
>>LISA: A clearer state.
>>SHEALY: --balanced.
What I would call
truly harmonious.
And of course, you could
combine that with imagery.
And I love the imagery of
this particular ring, which
I'd be happy to guide
you through, if you like.
>>LISA: That is wonderful.
Yes, you are master
in guided imagery.
Another word for
visualization, this is--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: And I love that you are
able to guide us through this.
Because not only do you
have years of experience,
but you have been
doing guided imagery,
you know what it
does to the brain.
And explain to people,
what exactly does it do?
>>SHEALY: Well
actually, you know,
the very mention
of a word activates
certain specific
areas of the brain.
That's been demonstrated
with PET scans.
And so, you know,
words are symbols.
Words are substitutes.
>>LISA: For example, what
words would stimulate?
>>SHEALY: Hand, but if you
were French you'd say ma main,
instead of my hand.
But you would be trained so
you'd have the same reaction
with ma main that you
and I get with my hand.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>SHEALY: And chair.
Each of these has a-- is
a symbol for an imagery
that we have in our mind.
But we learned that-- maybe
the little child, what that?
What's that?
>>LISA: Right.
>>SHEALY: And that's
how you learn.
So with the ring of air-- I love
this because you're using air.
For instance,
imagine that you're
breathing in through the skin at
the tips of your big toe nails.
And the air comes into
the center of you feet,
and goes out again.
And with every breath
you breathe air.
You're activating
that energy circuit
by breathing into the
point, into the foot itself,
and out again.
Then you move over on
the top of the foot.
That's the liver three point.
And you breathe in, direct it
through the top of your foot,
between the big toe and the
next toe on the top of the foot,
breathe into the center of
the foot, and back out again.
>>LISA: Now when you're using
this visual-- you could call
it visualization, you could
call it guided imagery,
and so forth-- I know that
they've used the study of words
on water.
Doctor Emoto did an
amazing study around that.
So the power of words
really makes it--
and scientific
evidence has shown
that it makes a great impact.
>>SHEALY: Tremendous impact.
>>LISA: But what about when
you're thinking of it in your
head?
>>SHEALY: Same thing.
>>LISA: Really?
>>SHEALY: Absolutely.
It's no different.
In fact, there's a wonderful
story about Moliere, Le Malade
Imaginaire, the hypochondriac.
And theoretically
he played the role
so well that he died on stage.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>SHEALY: I mean, but
words are that important--
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>LISA: And can be.
>>LISA: I'm sure
actors have experienced
that, where they
become the role.
>>SHEALY: You know, Lindsay
Wagner, The Bionic Woman,
was a friend of mine.
And I mean, Lindsay,
I didn't even
know sometimes how
to say something.
I'm always playing a role.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
Yeah, because she started
when she was very, very young,
acting.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: That might make a lot of
sense for a lot of child actors
who become, and assume,
and lose their identity
through what they're
actually doing.
And people can really
sometimes convince
themselves of anything.
And that-- it's a little
bit scary sometimes.
>>SHEALY: It is.
And you can talk yourself
into negative stuff as well.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>SHEALY: That's why it doesn't
pay to focus on negativity.
>>LISA: Right, because
you can absolutely
do the same thing in
terms of talking yourself
into a positive state and
into a desired state, which
is one of things that
the guided imagery does.
>>SHEALY: Absolutely.
>>LISA: I've used this for
years with goal setting,
with anything that has to do
with relationships, peace.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
And there's so many studies
that have been done on this.
You know, let's go
back to the beginning
of modern use of
this kind of thing.
Because in the late
1800's hypnosis came in.
It was very big.
>>LISA: Right.
>>SHEALY: But Freud was
a terrible hypnotist.
So that's why he
created his stuff.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: But the
people who were good
at it, like Schultz,
Johannes Schultz in Germany,
created something called
autogenic training.
And his point was when
he hypnotized people,
they became dependent upon him.
>>LISA: Oh, right.
>>SHEALY: And he didn't want
them to be dependent upon him.
They wanted to do it at home.
So he created the phrases
that people told him
they felt as they drifted
into a hypnotic state.
And so it begins with my arms
and legs are heavy and warm.
>>LISA: So this was the
feedback that he got from his--
>>SHEALY: Exactly
>>LISA: --his patients.
In the brain, from
knowing what you
know as a neurosurgeon,
what is the actual response,
or neural connection,
that happens
when you have words associated
and images associated?
>>SHEALY: It begins to
translate directly in the brain,
as if it's already happened.
And so you could train
yourself to warm your hand just
by thinking my hand is warm.
>>LISA: Can you really?
>>SHEALY: And in a child,
12 years and younger,
the first time you ask them
to do it, they can do it.
My 12-year-old
son, for instance,
came in one day,
Dad what's that?
Biofeedback device.
What do you do with it?
I said, warm your hand.
OK, warm your hand
up 10 degrees.
Less than a minute, he
said, OK I did that.
What do I do now?
I said, OK cool you hand,
lower it 10 degrees.
A minute later he said,
OK I've done that.
Out of the room.
And that's how quickly a
child can learn to do this.
Now for adults it may
then them a week or two.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: But, going
back to migraine,
which we talked about
earlier, 84% of people
who learn temperature
control of the hands
can bring their migraines
under control doing that.
>>LISA: So that's
just a good exercise.
Wait, why does it take
adults so much longer?
>>SHEALY: Well we have all the
inhibitions, and our fears,
and all the things
that have accumulated
through our years of work.
And of course, as
individuals we're different.
Some people learn it faster.
And on the other
hand, as 1969 there
were 2,600 scientific references
on autogenic training showing
that 80% of people
with stress illnesses
could bring them under control
with autogenic training.
>>LISA: And this is training
with basically your mind
>>SHEALY: These words,
words and images.
80% of students do
better in school.
80% of business people
do better in business.
80% of athletes do
better in athletics.
For instance, way
back in the late '70s,
the football team at University
of Wisconsin La Crosse
was at the bottom of its league.
I gave them six sessions
in using autogenic training
and visualization.
They were co-champions
that year.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
Wow, well this is from a master.
So that's ideal.
>>SHEALY: And the girls
basketball coach then
had me make a tape for
the girls basketball team.
He got his Master's
degree working on this.
And half of the girls were
given the tape, guided imagery.
They were 84% better
at free throws
than those who just practiced.
>>LISA: So have you trained
in this for a long time?
Guided, I mean, did--
>>SHEALY: Since the early '70s.
>>LISA: So you have.
And you've learned the
phrases, and what works,
and what's been used.
>>SHEALY: And then you take
a computerized brain map,
which brings you color
pictures of what's
happening in the
brain, and within
a minute you can put
yourself into an alpha state,
with a lovely mandala,
or into a state of theta,
which is guided
imagery itself, which
is a very different mandala.
And you can see that
on a computer EEG.
>>LISA: Well with
all of that evidence
we're going to have
this experience of being
able to do this right
now, with you guiding us.
>>SHEALY: OK.
>>LISA: Which I'm very, very
excited about and grateful for.
And all of you,
of course, at home
are going to be able to just get
into a relaxed state, and feet
firmly on the ground?
What do you think the best
way for people to sit?
>>SHEALY: Oh I think,
be comfortable.
A recliner is good,
although some people
are going to fall asleep
if they close their eyes.
So if you have trouble staying
awake, keep your eyes open
but focus on something that
doesn't have any emotion to it.
>>LISA: OK, all right, so
focus on something positive.
All right.
>>SHEALY: And shall
I do the ring of air?
>>LISA: Yes.
Now what exactly are people
going to experience, here?
>>SHEALY: Well, you are going
to activate that system that
controls neurotensin
and oxytocin.
And so you can do
it with imagery.
>>LISA: OK, and so this is
something that will get us
into a place of bliss--
>>SHEALY: A place of bliss.
>>LISA: --and peace.
>>SHEALY: And so
close your eyes.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Take a deep
breath, and let it go.
And just be aware that you
are a living, energetic being.
Every cell in your body is
just functioning energy.
So imagine you're
breathing in and out
through the tips of the
insides of your big toe.
And the air comes into
the center of your feet,
and out again.
Every breath into the
center and out again.
Into the center and out again.
Move your attention up over
the top of your foot, now,
both sides.
Just between the big toe and
the next toe, and imagine you're
breathing directly into
the center of your foot
and out again.
Directly into the center
of your foot and out again.
And move your attention up
the outsides of your calves,
to the very top outside the
tibia, or the shin bone.
And imagine you're
breathing into this area,
right into the center of your
calf, and back out again.
Breathing in the tops of
your calves, into the center,
and out again.
Breathing into the top center
of your calf and out again.
Move your attention now
up to your tail bone,
and imagine you're breathing
in through the bottom
of your spine, the
tail bone itself.
And as you breathe in, the
air comes all the way up
to the top of your
spine and out.
And the next breath, you
breathe in at the top
of your spine, all the
way your spinal canal
and out at the tail bone.
Take another breath in the
bottom of your tailbone,
up to the top of
your spine and out.
In the top of your spine,
down and out at the tail bone.
One more time, bringing the
Kundalini all the way up,
from the tail bone as
the air comes in, out
of the top of your spine.
In at the top of your
spine, back down and out
at the tail bone.
Now go to the points
on your chest,
just below your collar
bone and at the junction
with the shoulder.
Breathe in, and
here imagine you're
breathing into the
lungs themselves
through this point on
your upper outer chest,
right into the lungs,
filling them, and out again.
Breathing in and out again.
In, filling your
lungs, and out again.
Now move your attention up,
on the base of your skull,
right halfway between the
mastoid and the center,
and breathe directly into
the base of your skull.
And the air comes all
the way into the center
under the base of the
brain, and out again.
Into the center, the underside
of the base of your skull,
and out again.
Into the base of the skull, all
the way through, and out again.
Now move your attention up to
the top, center of your head,
above your ears.
Imagine you're breathing
in through the top center
of your skull.
Now the air goes
all the way down
the brain and spine
and out the tail bone.
Breathe in at the tail bone,
all the way up the spine
and through the brain,
and out the top center.
Breathe in the top
center of your brain
head, down to the base of
the spine, and back up again.
And finally now, you
have 13 specific points.
Be aware and imagine
you're breathing directly
into the body through the
points from the toes, the feet,
the calves, the spine, the
lungs, the base of the skull,
all of them coming in together
at same time, and out again.
All of them coming into
the center of your body
and out again.
And one more time,
all of them coming
in to the center of
your body and out again.
Now just stop for a
moment and feel, sense,
know how it feels to be
in this state of feeling
totally comfortable, at peace
with the world, with your body,
with your mind,
with your emotions.
It feels good.
And it is a good thing to do.
>>LISA: And this is a perfect
thing to do if you're ever
in a place of anxiety or stress,
if you have localized pain
in your body, if you
have a headache or--
>>SHEALY: I'm glad you brought
up that one, by the way.
I learned this
many, many years ago
when I was developing my whole
concept of mental retraining.
I read a book by an
East Indian, and he
said the first day
you do not breathe
through a part of the
body it starts to die.
And what I realized is the first
day you don't balance, and get
rid of the stress that gets
accumulated in the body,
the cells begin to have trouble.
Along with Wilhelm Reich,
the great psychiatrist
who talked about building
up-- armoring in the body.
And so I was on a trip, and
I had a little sore throat.
And so I just sat there for
15 minutes just breathing
in and out, total
control of the pain.
And by learning to do
it in a part of the body
where you don't have difficulty,
then if you have difficulty,
and it may take 15 minutes,
but you can actually
make that part of the body numb.
>>LISA: Wow, there's an enormous
amount of research on the power
of breath--
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
>>LISA: --and the
healing power of breath.
>>SHEALY: Very
important, obviously.
>>LISA: And if someone
is experiencing
stress, and they
have the effects
of the cortisol release, and
the damaging of-- of course
it sets off the
free radicals, it
starts to damage cells
and inhibit reproduction
of healthy cells, and so forth.
That whole cascading
effect that happens
in the body with stress.
And then we sit with that,
that's what gives us the pain,
right?
>>SHEALY: And
there's no question.
I mean Reich said when
muscles go into spasm,
it cuts off the blood flow.
And he's right.
A gynecologist in Carmel,
California, back in the '70s,
showed that women
who were non-orgasmic
had a decreased
temperature in the vagina.
He gave them a tampon
thermometer, no psychotherapy,
and just taught them to warm the
tissue of the vagina to normal,
and they became orgasmic
with no psychotherapy.
>>LISA: So what exactly are
the effects, in the body,
of stress?
I mean, exactly
what happens when
the body goes through
that type of stress?
>>SHEALY: Well, you
raise cortisol--
>>LISA: Uh huh, which
is the stress hormone.
>>SHEALY: --which is
the stress hormone.
You raise adrenaline.
That causes the
pancreas to go in,
because the adrenaline
raises blood sugar, which
you release from the liver.
The pancreas then has to kick in
to bring the blood sugar down.
The adrenaline
also causes, then,
and the cortisol, you
need to produce DHEA.
And that's what
burnout happens, when
that pathway between cortisol
and DHEA begins to burnout.
It can't handle it anymore.
>>LISA: So we had the running
from the tiger experience.
But now we're constantly
running from the traffic.
And we're running from the--
whatever stressors, fears,
that are being fed to
us through the media.
And we're running through
the convenience store
markets and all that.
And so that's causing the
constant tiger syndrome.
>>SHEALY: Exactly.
Interestingly, when I was
doing my first research
on the ring of
fire to raise DHEA,
I had two men who didn't get
any response in six weeks.
And I was like what are
you doing when you do this?
I'm watching the evening news.
And I said, look, I don't
have anything as strong
as the evening news is negative.
Do this without watching the--
And then they're DHEA came up.
>>LISA: Interesting.
It's amazing how much stress
the evening news can impart.
>>SHEALY: I don't watch it.
I don't need it.
>>LISA: Yeah, but it's very--
I mean talk about imagery.
It could work in the
opposite direction.
>>SHEALY: Absolutely,
absolutely.
You know, my
attention to the news
is I open online The New
York Times every morning.
I look at the headlines, most
days I may read one article.
And then I'm done.
I don't need any more.
I don't ready any
other newspapers.
I don't watch--
>>LISA: And you get
to choose your news.
>>SHEALY: I choose it.
>>LISA: Yes, absolutely.
So what, by the way,
is your daily routine?
And in what--
>>SHEALY: I get up at 5:00
o'clock AM, almost inevitably.
And--
>>LISA: What time
do you got to bed?
>>SHEALY: 9:00.
>>LISA: OK.
>>SHEALY: Not later the 9:30.
>>LISA: Sleep's very
important to you.
>>SHEALY: --at that hour.
So I get up, and I
take some supplements.
>>LISA: Uh huh.
>>SHEALY: I turn on my computer.
I check the news
and the weather,
and then I exercise
75 to 90 minutes.
>>LISA: Every day?
>>SHEALY: Every day.
>>LISA: Every day.
>>SHEALY: Different
combinations of exercise.
And so then I have breakfast.
So by the time I have breakfast,
it's almost inevitably
8:00 o'clock, sometimes 8:30.
And then I go about my day.
And part of my routine in
the morning, of my exercise,
is 30 minutes of
actually brisk walking
to feed animals on our farm.
>>LISA: Oh, that's wonderful.
>>SHEALY: And I go
through the day.
And at the end of the
day, I almost every day
take a sauna or a hot soak.
>>LISA: So you're constantly
circulating your body.
>>SHEALY: You bet.
>>LISA: Improving your
circulation constantly.
And you're 60 years old?
>>SHEALY: I'm 79, dear.
But I feel 26.
>>LISA: You do?
Because that's what
you tell yourself.
>>SHEALY: Energetically,
I feel 26.
>>LISA: Yes.
You honestly do, don't you?
>>SHEALY: I did a treadmill
test a couple of years
ago, just for fun.
And cardiac-wise, I was
better than many 26 year olds.
>>LISA: You're kidding me.
So you really, you
constantly tell yourself,
on a daily basis,
because I remember
you told me earlier
today, I feel 26.
>>SHEALY: And so physiologically
that's where I am, I believe.
>>LISA: Well we've learned
so much from you today.
And we've learned
everything from the power
of the mind and the
fact that a thought
sets a prayer in motion.
I absolutely love that.
We've learned that there's
over 50 devices and techniques
and exercises that
alleviate pain, stress.
>>SHEALY: Depression,
anxiety, blood pressure.
>>LISA: Hormone balancing.
>>SHEALY: Cholesterol.
>>LISA: Migraines, pain
management, mostly.
Yeah.
>>SHEALY: And that's
why I honestly
know that 85% of the time people
don't need drugs or surgery.
Now, if you've got
an acute illness,
that's what physicians
can do best.
If you've got a broken bone,
you need an orthopedist.
If you've got appendicitis,
you need a surgeon.
>>LISA: But that
is what I wanted
to do today, was to get
that knowledge from you
into the minds of people
so that they have choice,
they have awareness, and
that they can do something
about their pain.
And there's many, many
choices around it.
>>SHEALY: And
remember, you are good.
Because God does
not create junk.
>>LISA: Yes, I remember
you saying that years ago.
Thank you so much, Doctor
Shealy, you're a gem.
Thank you so much for imparting
your knowledge on us today.
It was definitely necessary.
Thank you so much.
My hands are warm.
See I've been telling
myself , my hands are warm.
[LAUGHING]
>>LISA: Thank you, again.